hi and welcome to ingredients allenge
with me Rosie Burkett for BBC good food
in this episode I'm going to be cooking
with basmati rice I've got some ginger
some leftover chili red and green two
spring onions a clove of garlic sort of
half to three quarts of cauliflower
nice big courgette a cup of frozen peas
this is mint salt obviously really
important curry powder cardamom turmeric
chili flakes and sesame seeds and soy
sauce so I'll show you what you need to
make it I've got a red chili here finely
chopped with a little knob of ginger as
well that I peeled with a teaspoon and
then chopped some vegetable oil or
grapeseed oil some sesame seeds soy
sauce and chili flakes and a clove of
garlic which we're just gonna chop
finely quite finely chop this that's
about right and then just add that into
the bowl ginger and chili
okay so I've put about four tablespoons
of the vegetable oil into a pan and I
haven't turned the heat on I've put the
ginger chilli and garlic in and now I'm
just going to turn the heat on very
gently and bring it all up together
quite gently and this is gonna take just
a few minutes and what you want to do is
have a spatula ready just to stir this
stuff into the oil and that's the chili
oil there and see the lovely bit
now we just want to boil our frozen peas
they don't only literally take a second
just got another great sheet right here
because we don't want to overcrowd cuz
the key to getting nice caramelized
crispy veg is to space them out so
they've got room
you're just gonna drizzle over a little
bit of vegetable oil or rapeseed oil
olive oil whatever you've got coconut
oil works really well as well
just enough to coat and then season with
a great pinch of salt and some I'm using
some curry powder here garam masala
works really well or your favorite curry
powder that you might have maybe you've
made your own but yeah just coat
everything in the curry powder and the
oil and salt these are going into a hot
oven so 180 fan for about 25 minutes 20
to 25 minutes after that time they
should have some nice caramelization in
those costs and some really good nutty
flavors so you need a knob of butter and
you're just going to put that in your
pan over a medium heat and I'm gonna pop
in a few cloves of green cardamom as
well
and Ivan pinches
the teaspoon of turmeric okay so going
in with 300 grams of boiling water
lovely and then scrape any that might be
stuck to the bottom off and scrape down
the sides and then what you want to do
is turn down your Heat
so really low heat I'm going to put it
on about two and then we're going to put
the lid on and just cook that on a
really low heat without stirring it for
about seven minutes it's been seven
minutes and our rice is ready so I've
turned off the heat and what I'm gonna
do now is just take the lid off hope you
see how lovely they are looking and you
just want to grab a clean tea towel and
pop it over your pan like that and then
replace the lid and what that's going to
do is help the rice to absorb all of
that steam and get a lovely and fluffy
and move it off the heat as well and
just leave it to sit somewhere for about
ten to fifteen minutes wait you get
everything else ready it's been about 25
minutes as well and the roasted
cauliflower is looking onion spring
onion chili oil make sure once it's in
the fridge always delicious my cooked
frozen peas which are going straight in
good squeeze of lemon juice for some
extra freshness as well and then I'm
going to stir through spoonful of my
chili oil flavors this is smelling
absolutely delicious gorgeous roasted
curried and this would be great with a
poached egg or with a with a boiled egg
kedgeree style some fish some smoked
fish or some tender fish this would work
really well
to drizzle over a little bit of extra
chili there's not going to be much left
after this but what is little heat in
the fridge absolutely gorgeous and
that's it of beautiful golden tablet
rice with peas roasted cauliflower
homemade chili oil it's an absolute
belter I hope you've enjoyed this recipe
and I'll be back soon
[Music]